Book I.
Diary.

Private John D. Wilson
No 46,
Head Quarters Pioneers
37 Battalion
10 Infantry Brigade
A.I.F.
On Active Service

Diary from
June 2, 1916 to July 27, 1916

May 17, 1916An explosive is generally understood as a substance composed of combustable matter and containing it own supports of combustion.

[Transcriber's note: following shorthand not transcribed.]
A high explosive shatters
A low explosive propelling force
[indecipherable]
Best [indecipherable] would diffuse in a [indecipherable] of sulphuric acid.
[indecipherable]
Stability under [indecipherable]Wet G. Carbon is not easily electrocuted
Primer is used to detonate GC
Velotninite has a [indecipherable]
Nitro Glicerine
Componsed of 60 to 80 per centre of
[indecipherable] acid
T.N.T.

[indecipherable]Explosives
May 18, 1916
1. The greatest possible care must be exercised in handling explosives.
2. Timers must be kept dry
2. Timers must be inclosed compact with charge.
3. Detonator inserted well into and secured to Primer
4. Fuse inserted well into and secured to Detonator
5. Fuse on leads to be tied back to charge.
6. Cover charge to prevent it burning.
7. Use [rectifier] to enlarge hole in the Primer on charge.
8. Test all Fuses, [indecipherable], Detonators and Explosives.
9. Make good joints.
10. Charge to be continuous.
11. Charge hole in [alone] contact to object to be demolished.
12. Never carry detonators and explosives in the same [indecipherable]. Don't pack Detonators and explosives in the same store.
13. Miss Fires  €“ don't be too curious. Leave it for some time. A t least half an hour. Better left to next day.
14. Carry a knife and means of ignition.
Wet gun cotton can be out with steel tools with safety provided a continuousstream of water is poured over it.

Fuses.
May 18, 1916
Fuses are a means of exploding charges to enable the operator to get away.
There are two kinds of fuses. Safety and Instantateous. Safety Fuse. (No.9) burns at the rate of 4ft per second minute. The other 90 feet per second.

Safety fuses have a powder column surrounded with a flare and gutter[indecipherable] and an outside insulating tape and is coloured black.
Intantaneous fuses are coloured orange red and outside covering is rough.
Commercial Fuse (No.8) is [indecipherable] coloured and burns at the rate of 2 ft per minute.
Instantaeous fuse has a quick match column that is 7 [indecipherable] of Mercury.
Cut fuses square on the end to fit into the Detonator and the other end to be lighted on the slant.

Joining Fuses
There are two ways of joining fuses. Thescarf joint and the notch or cross joint, thus
[illustration]
Junction boxes are used where a number of charges are to be exploded instantaneously.
A piece of safety fuse leads into the junction fuse and from the box pieces of instantaneous fuses (all the exact same length) from the box to the charges. The junction box is filled with black powder. A small tobacco tin makes a good junction box with holes punched in the sides for the fuses to enter.

The safety fuse carries the [indecipherable] to the box and from there the instantaneous fuses carry it to the charges and they all explode on the same instant.

Detonators
Are made of copper and contain 35 grains of Fulminator Mercury coloured red. No.8 service No.13, Mark 1 is used for firing electrically. No. 14 Mark 2 are forfiring a mine with powder.
No. 6 Commercial
Copper tube containing 15 grains of Fulminator Mercury.
No 8. Just the same but larger.

Trench Warfare.
Don't confuse Trench warfare with warfare in the open. 18 men to the yard are required to make an attack on a trench.

Artillery attacks are followed up by the Infantry.

The Infantry has strict orders as to how far they are to advance.

In the defence of a Trench the men must know the plan of the trench thoroughly so as to be able to find their way about and concentrate at any part they are ordered to defend. If they did not know the trench well they might get lost and unable to go where required, thus the trench might be taken by the enemy.

46 Private John D. Wilson
No. 46.
Head Quarters (Pioneers.)
37. Battalion
10 Inf Brigade
Australian Imperial Force
On Active Service

June 2, 1916
Friday evening June 2/1916 we packed our kit bags in readiness to march into Seymour in the morning to catch a special train to Port Melbourne and thence march on board the "Persic" enroute to England. J.D. Wilson. Seymour Camp.Saturday morning June 3/16
A wet march into Seymour to catch 6.15 train to city. Said Good Bye to Lizzie and steamed out of Seymour. Arrived at Flinders St safely & hence on to Port Melbourne Pier about 9. Had lunch & roll call and went on board about 11. Sailed out from the pier about 1 p.m. amid the cheers of a large crowd. Had dinner about 1.30. Wrote 2 letters as we steamed down the bay and posted them with the pilot when he left us outside the Heads at 5 o'clock.

Sunday, June 4. 1916
Sick all day, a very rough sea. Passed Cape Bridgewater early in the morning about 7.

Monday June 5. 1916
Sick again today but not quite so bad as yesterday. Sea still very rough.

Tuesday June 6. 1916
A little better today, had some breakfast & dinner. The medicine I got last evening & this morning from the doctor done me a lot of good.A drill parade today for the first time. Instructions for correspondence we were especially told not to mention any of the following or the letter would be censored or perhaps not forwarded.

Names & places of dispatch
Names of escort.
Number & description of troops the position of forces
Route & Ports of call
Criticism judged harmful
References to [indecipherable] units or commanders.
Ships met enroute.
Sickness, other than sea sickness, [indecipherable]

From 11 to noon 3. p.m. to 4 pm, 6 to 7.

Instructions were also given that a church parade would be held every Sunday morning.

The storm today has considerably abated and there are not so many sick about. More than half of the Battalion were sick. The Band played today for the first time, being sick before.

Wednesday June 7. 1916.
Much better today, west wind, steamer still rolling. Physical drill, a quiet day. Ate 3 square meals today.Thursday June 8. 1916.
Rough sea today. Had a goood breakfast. Pioneers drilled with B. Company this morning, & will continue to do so until Further orders. From 12 p.m. yesterday until 12 pm. Today we made 245 miles about 10 knots an hour against a head wind all the time. A very heavy sea broke over our bows last night and smashed some rafts. It is said that it is the heaviest wave that ever broke over the Persic or rather A 34 as she is now called while being used as a troop transport. Just about dark land was sighted and about 9 o'clock ship's time we were along side the pier at Albany.

The harbour is a beautiful land backed sheet of water and at the entrance the pilot came aboard, and told us of the Great British Naval Victory over the Germans in the North Sea, and the loss of Kitchener and the whole of his Staff on their way to Russia.Friday June 9. 1916.
I am mess orderly today along with Gillespie for the first time. There is a route march this morning through the town. The mess orderlies do not go on the march but Gillespie goes on leave in the morning and I go from 11 to 2 p.m.

Albany is a beautiful little town situated on the side of a rocky hill and running right down to the waters edge. The Persic is berthed at the railway pier and there is also a cargo pier running a right angles to it. It is said they are about a mile from the town. I bought a newspaper this morning "The West Australian" dated Tuesday June 6, 1916. and will now eagerly read the war news.

Had a good look round Albany to day. It is a beautiful little town, and the citizens treated us well supplying us with light refreshments with a generous hand and also reading matter. I was ashore from 11 until 2.p.m. and posted letters & post-cards of the town to Willie, Ciss, Lizzie and Tom Douglas. At 9 o'clockthat night we cast off from the pier and steamed out of the harbour, at 10 p.m. I went to bed and we were almost out of the harbour.

Saturday June 10. 1916.
We were still in sight of land this morning, but after breakfast it had disappeared. There is a strong wind blowing from the South West and the sea is rough. We are going West.

Sunday June 11. 1916.
Sunday is a very quiet day aboard ship at sea. The Pioneers had no drill but the companies had a little physical exercise at 2.30. There was a divine service conducted by Captain (chaplain) Davidson of the 37 Battalion. At the conclusion Lt Colonel Dowse of [blank] spoke denouncing the use of filthy language & stating that N.C.O.s spoke would be instructed to take the names of those who continued to use a certain filthy expression they would be severely dealt with. The sea is much calmer today. The wind S.W. having moderated.Monday June 12. 1916.
A nice morning, in fact it is the finest day since we have been afloat, but it became cloudy in the evening. The wind has changed to E.S.E. and the ship does not roll so much. This morning the Pioneers started to learn Semaphore signalling, and had some physical drill. In the evening we were practising for the Sports which are to come off next Wednesday.

Tuesday June 13. 1916.
A nice day but cloudy. South wind.

Physical drill with B. Company. We had our first lesson in french this morning given by a French soldier in B. Company assisted by Major Storey.

This afternoon owing to some infectious cases in the hospital the ship was isolated and each company was ordered to keep to its own troop deck and not to mix with any other company.

Wednesday June 14. 1916
This is a beautiful day. The sea is calm & the Sun is shining brightly.Thursday June 15. 1916.
Another beautiful day. Our course is almost out West and there is a gentle breeze from the South. A whale was seen early this morning, and I am told a steamer was within 3 miles of us last night.

Friday June 16. 1916.
This is a nice bright sunny day. This morning we were going 4 points North of West and at 2.15 the course was 8 points N of West. At 9 o'clock I went down to the Boiler room and remained until 11.45. It is very hot work stoking. There are 27 fires in all and the heat in the tropics must be terrific. I felt it pretty hot in these latitudes. There are 4 main boilers in the "Persic". They are fired from both ends, there being three fires in each end, that is 6 fires for each boiler. There is an auxilery boiler forward with 3 fires and its funnel is carried diagonally overhead into the main funnel. The boilers develop about 25,000 Horse Power. The working Pressure is 215 lbs and 90 tons of coal is consumed per day. The firesare stoked alternatively in succession every 7 minutes, and three in each boiler are drawn every four hours. There is an iron door from the boiler room into the engine room where there is some magnificent machinery. There is a set of High Pressure & Slow Pressure Condensing Engines on each side to work the twin screws of the vessel. I intend to ask permission to have a good look around the engine room.

The ashes & clinkers from the furnaces are sent down a shoot and blown out into the sea below the surface under great pressure which keeps the water out.

The "Persic" is fitted with wireless and a powerful refrigerating plant. She has on board a cargo of wheat and also some transport wagons. There are some 1600 troops aboard & about 300 of a crew.

I did some washing to day, the first time bar a few handkerchiefs, since I became a soldier.

The Persic is about 12,000 tons displacement
Length 500 ft.
Beam 60 ft
Speed 10 to 13 knots.This afternoon the Pioneers and the transports were vacinated in the forepart of the steamer. I had 4 punctures by Captain (Doctor) J.S. Youl on the left arm.

It is reported that there is a case of Meningitis in the hospital from G. Deck.

Some of the troops saw early this morning in the distance what they described as four whales. One of the transports saw one spouting; but it is possible that what they thought were whales were only porpoises.

There has been no drill this week. Pioneer Sgt. Robinson has been married 10 years today.

Saturday June 17. 1916.
Another nice day but there is a fresh breeze blowing from N.N.W. The course is 6 points N. of W. To day those of the Head Quarters details who wanted to make a draw gave in there names to the Sergeant & it will be paid on 23 inst.

The weather changed this evening and it is now showery with a strong head (West) wind.

Sunday June 18. 1916.
A strong wind from the West. The Sun is shining brightly, but it is cloudy. The course is 6 points N. of West. On Saturday eveningevening a little newspaper typewritten was issued on board the ship. It consists of 2 sheets of 1 page each and very badly duplicated. There is no outside views in it. The first page is taken up entirely with the sports that were to be held last Wednesday but have been postponed. It is called the sporting edition of the "Astra" and deals in a humorous way with everything. It has a half column entitled "Quick Answers to Quaint Queries" One penny is charged for the paper and Sergeant Hunter who came on to D. deck armed with a bundle of the latest edition to take down his own platoon faceteously remarked as he raked in the pennies "If you can't read them they will do for  or at least shaving paper". Moral. Paper at sea is more highly valued than it is on land.

This evening Captain (chaplain) McGreggor conducted divine service, but the wind which had increased almost to a gale, renderedhis voice inaudible except to those who were quite close to the speaker.

Pay books were served out to all the Head Quarters Details by our O.C. Lieutenant Taylor.

Monday June 19. 1916
The ship is rolling terribly this morning and last night. There are heavy swells and a strong head wind. The course is 5 points North of West. From 12 p.m yesterday to to 12 p.m to day we travelled 266 miles.

This afternoon we were paraded to the Bath room for a shower.

Tuesday June 20. 1916
Cloudy and showery. The course is the same as yesterday. The sea is lumpy. Most of my time is taken up reading. I have read numerous articles in papers & magazines. The last book I read was "The Wisdom of Folly" by Ellen Thorneycroft Fowler and I found it of very absorbing interest. Reading appears to be the chief occupation of all on board. Games of various kinds are also well patronised. Draughts, cards, Quoits, skipping, etcbeing the chief. Draughts is my favourite game and I have played a great many games, I have won about half of the games I played.

Wednesday June 21. 1916.
A nice day with the wind from the South West. The course is 4 points North of West. One of the Pioneers "Darkey" Silver was sent to the Hospital yesterday evening and this morning I was told he was suffering from measles. The Sports are to be held this afternoon.

The Sports were held this afternoon & were a very tame affair. They consisted chiefly of Rope Quoits, Deck Quoits, and Deck Billiards.

They will be continued to morrow. I wrote 2 letters today.

Thursday June 22. 1916.
A nice day, with a fairly strong head wind on the starboard bow. The course is 2 points North of West.

Short arm inspection this afternoon.

Friday June 23. 1916
Another nice day with a head wind. The course has not changed. I have finished reading a great lady detective tale entitled "Joan Mar" by Marie ConnorLeighton, and I found it a most interesting story. [Transcriber's note: following shorthand not transcribed.]

There is a very heavy swell this evening & it is raining tonight. There are a lot of sea birds about all day. It is a sign that we are getting near land. The birds are a different species to the ones that followed us from Melbourne. [Transcriber's note: following shorthand not transcribed.]

Saturday June 24. 1916.
There is a gale blowing this morning, the sea is rough & there is white foam to be seen everywhere. The spray occasionally splashes on the deck. The course is 2 points North of West.we are only making 11 knots an hour. We expect to sight land on Monday.

Sunday June 25. 1916.
A beautiful day, smooth sea, & light breeze from the N. West. The course is 2 points N. of W. I saw a whale spouting after dinner today in the distance S. of the ship. This morning the "Persic"was making 11 knots an hour. To day a wireless message was posted up on D. deck informing us that Washington has mobilized a force to rush Mexico, that Russia had offered to cede certain territory to Roumania in return for her active help in the war; that there were air raids on the Western front; but the results were undecisive. The British lost 2 machines. This is the first news since we left Albany. At 2.30 to day a church parade was held on E & F deck. The service was conducted by Captain (Chaplain) Davidson who preached an eloquent sermon on "Temptation".

Monday June 26. 1916
The sea is rough this morning & there is a strong breeze from W.N.W. The course is 5 points N. of West and we are making 11 knots an hour. This morning about 7 a.m. I saw a ship in the distance to the East. N. East and in about half an hour's time she had disappeared in the distance. She was the first ship seen on the voyage since leaving Australia. A steamer was also seen about 10.15 this morning ahead of us,we are gradually overtaking her. She appears to be travelling in the same direction as ourselves. This morning a number of all black sea birds were in the wake of the ship. These are much smaller than the other birds, and I have never seen them in Australia.

About 3.30 another steamer was seen N. of us and a little later still another. Before dark we had passed them and they were mere specks on the horizon. At 5. p.m the steamer we saw in the morning could be seen in the distance, her smoke indicating where she was, laboriously trying to keep in sight of us. We also saw land in the North.

It was very misty and cloudy, but a range of hills could be discerned in the far distance through the mist. This has been an eventful day, 4 vessels being seen and also land. Truly it is either a feast or a famine. Another wireless was posted up on D. deck but there was nothing startling in it.Tuesday June 27. 1916.
A cold, bleak, wintry day, misty rain, a rough sea, and a murkey sky. The wind is from the West, cold & bitter. The course is 8 points North of West. Before breakfast a 2 masted steamer passed us on the starboard side going past & after breakfast we passed a ship on the same side going East. We spent the morning below on account of the drizzling rain.

This afternoon is a cold miserable wintery day. Misty rain all the time, and a strong wind from the W.S.W. which increased to a gale at night. To night is very dark and stormy. It is the roughest weather since we left Melbourne. We passed a lighthouse to night on the starboard side at 6.15. Truly this is a wild night at sea. The steamer is rolling heavily, and pitching forward. Nearly all are below except for those whose duty compels them to remain on deck.Wednesday June 28. 1916
We arrived in Table Bay last night and lay too until daylight, when we came slowly into and lay opposite the Pier. The sight was a beautiful one. Before us was the Table mount, with the city nestled below, a long range of low mountains around the bay on the left. (East) a lighthouse on an Island. (Robin Is). Directly in front a huge search light and on the West a flash light at the foot of the mount known as green point. From this point the city winds round the foot of Table Mount and fringing the bay for several miles.

An account of measles on board the yellow flag was flown and we were delayed for some time. At last we moved round slowly to the entrance of a very large dock and had to lay too in order for room to be made for us. At last when a large steamer moved out we got in and lay alongside one of the numerous wharves at 11.8. a.m. This is a very busy harbour. This morning their were alongside the various warfs 12 large steamers, 4 ships, 1 dredge several tugs & small steamers, & a fleet of fishing boats.Outside the dock there were 4 large steamers waiting. This is a beautiful day and all enjoy it after such a boisterous day yesterday & last night but this morning the wind had dropped & the mist had cleared away. There is still a heavy fog around the mountain which rose to the top as the sun got higher.

There is a wireless station on a high bluff overlooking the harbour, and roads are cut around the Bluff (Lions Rump) and Table mount. There is grass right to the top of the bluff, but table mount is a high precipitous rock with a flat top hence its name. It is a beautiful sight when there is a thick white mist over the top & half way down the sides. It looks like a table cloth. Behind the Bluff there is a high round rock peak standing up like a pyramid and running its peak into the clouds. It is called The Lions Head, and the Bluff the Lions Rump. On the East of Table mount there is a high rockymount called the Devils Peak. The wharves in the docks are variously constructed, some are of wood and others of stone and concrete. On the wharves there are at least a dozen huge Portable iron cranes on rails which can be moved along to where wanted. The scenery around the city beggars description. In the far distance there are ranges of mountains, whose tops are among the clouds. There is snow on the tops & they glisten in the Sun whenever the clouds are lifted. The harbour is as still as a mill pond. The city circles around the bay between the shore and the foot of the mounts for a distance of 18 miles. There are some magnificent buildings, the finest being the Union Houses of Parliament. As one comes ashore he is at once struck by the absence of a white Africa Policy. The wharves swarm with Kaffirs who appear to do all the hard menial work. They are chiefly employed as coal lumpers, and on shore they drive cabs,lorries and even motor cars while Kaffa boy and girls are busy employed selling fruit & lollies to tourists. A variety of languages are spoken here. As the visitor steps on the wharf he sees printed in large letters on a huge placard "Beware of the Crane" and underneath in dutch "Pas lep vour de Kraanen" for the Boers are not an inconsiderable portion of the population. Before dinner I was fortunate in getting a copy of the "Cape Times" price 1d. & published daily. It is not a patch on the "Argus" or "Age". It is all printed in English.

At 2. p.m. we were all lined up on the wharf and marched to the city the Pioneers leading, taking the beach road to the West. About  ½ a mile from the wharf we were halted for a few minutes, & I took the opportunity to run down to the waters edge & gathered a few shells. Cray fish are evidently very plentiful, for their shells are numerous, & one of the pioneers picked up a live one at the waters edge between some stones. From herewe marched on to the common where we halted & stayed until 5. p.m. We were turned loose, but were not allowed to mix with the civilians, pickets being posted to prevent this. Nevertheless most of us secured oranges, peanuts etc. from the Kaffa boys, I got some splendid views of the Cape, 12 in book form for 1/6. At 5. we formed up in line and marched to the ship. On the way we were halted and inspected by the Cape Town military authorities. At a quarter to 6 we were again on board the "Persic" and were ready for our tea.

As soon as we made fast this morning the "Persic" started to take in water, and all the afternoon she has been taking in coal, 3 huge cranes carrying large baskets of coal into her bunkers. This work will continue for a few days and nights, for she is to take in enough to carry us to England. The reason why we were not dismissed in the town, was that we came in with the yellow flag flying (this means disease on board) and ithas been flying all day, and to night. There are several cases of meningitis on board, & I understand they will be put ashore to morrow to be sent back to Australia.

The railways here are on the narrow gauge system. There are some quere little trucks filled with stone for the wharfe. The carriages are very ordinary. On the pier they have a stopping place, but there is no raised platform for the passengers. They get on as if they were boarding a tram by means of a step at the end of the carriage. I have seen 3 patterns of engines, a very small one, another with a square boiler, and a large one with a very long round boiler, and similar to the Victorian locomotives. They have all low wheels, as also have the carriages & trucks. The Policemen have a blue serg uniform, similar to the Victorian, but with S.A.P. on the shoulder, and a black hat identical with the new summer hat wornby employees on the Victorian railways. There are a number of forts on the side of the mountain, & on the route march we passed quite close to one. The soldiers stood up and had a look at us.

Thursday June 29. 1916
Another beautiful day, and at 9.15 we again marched off from the pier under the command of Lieut. Colonel Dowse to the city along the pier road, thence on along the dock road passing the Graving dock to the main part of the city, passing the Post office which is a fine building and numerous other public buildings. The names of these offices were inscribed in large characters on brass plates in both dutch and English. A peculiar feature of the town is that the railways run through and along some of the busy streets, like the trams in Melbourne. Warnings at the crossingsare painted up in both English & dutch. There are stopping places like sidings bearing a notice that the train stops there. There is a fine system of electric trams. The cars are two "deckers", and one line goes from the city passing between the Table Mount and the lions head to the outlying suburbs, and continues right round the Lions Head the Lions Rump, and returns to the city from the Western side. The fare is 1/6. When we got through the main part of the city we came out on to the New Road to Rondebosch. It circles round the side of Table Mount and the Devils Peak, and a splendid view of the Harbour, Robin Island a range of mountains in the distance, Mt. Wellington's snowy head showing in all its beauty. A fine view of the city and suburbs below can also be seen. We followed this road for 6 miles,and it is the finest road I have ever seen winding round the side of the mountains in easy gradients. It is as smooth as a board, the surface being covered with tar. Most of the way there are forests of a native pine sometimes on both sides of the road and they lend enchantment to the surroundings.

Half away along we passed under an overhead tramway conveying stone from a quarrie high up on the side of Table Mount to the town below. This road further along passes below Cecil Rhodes Memorial at Groote Schuur, Rondebosch. The monument is high up on the side of Devils Peak and is built of white stone. In a little paddock below we saw some bisons. Not far from this place we halted on a nice grassy place where we had dinner which we carried with us. There are beautifulgardens and parks here and some lovely flowers. At a grandstand here we were allowed to purchase soft drinks, cakes, and beer at 4d a pannikin. There is also a tea room but we were not allowed to go near it, for fear of the meningitis. We stayed here for 3 hours and at 3 p.m. we started back for the city.

On the way we were frequently pelted with fruit, chocolates, cakes etc. especially as we got nearer the city where they were dropping them down on us from high buildings. A feature of our journey both ways on this road was the tribe of coloured boys and girls, with a sprinkling of white children among them that followed us both in and out. They were of all ages from babies in arms and little fellows able to walk to adults. Along the road many of their mothers & fathers lined up to see us. We went through the cityby a different route passing The Union Houses of Parliament which is a beautiful pile of buildings, and will bear comparison with Melbourne. There are many beautiful shops and banks, some of them being 5 and 6 stories high. But the streets are narrow like Sydney's. The Standard Bank, Adderley St. is a magnificient building, and will bear comparison with any similar building in Melbourne. In all we marched about 14 miles before we got back to our steamer, where tea was waiting us. We all felt very tired & eat our tea with a relish.

Friday June 30. 1916
Another nice morning. At 9.30 we again formed up on the pier, and after being delayed until 10 O'clock we went for a short route march past the graving dock & through part of thecity, thence we went South & after crossing the railway line turned East, and followed the electric tram line until we came to the common, entering it this time from the South side. There we were halted and dismissed for a few hours and given the opportunity to purchase cakes tobacco, cigarettes and beer @ 4d. per cup. From the Park we marched across it to the beach road and thence back to our ship which we reached at 1.30. The Persic had finished taking in coal & water. After dinner we found that she had taken on board the day before a 4'7in gun which was mounted in the stern ready for action if we should meet any submarines when we get into the danger zone. For some reason the Persic did not leave thepier until 4.30. The band played and those on the wharf and also those on a liner close by cheered as we went out, the soldiers cheering in return, and giving the Australian Coo-ee. Before dark we were out in the open sea bearing with us favourable impressions of South Africa and its people.

While we were in Cape Town we took on board 24 deserters from a previous transport that had left a few days previously. Several of our own men who broke off from the march and came on board the next day were fined  £ 2 each and given 7 days in the [indecipherable]. The yellow flag was hauld down when we were out a few hours.

Saturday July 1. 1916.

A fine morning. The ship is rolling a lot and we are in the South Atlantic Ocean, enroute to England. The course is N.N.West and the wind is from the N.W. Up to 8. a.m. we made 176 knots sincewe left Cape Town.

Yesterday evening when we were passing Robin Island we could plainly see a large steamer that was stranded on the rocks about 2 months ago. Men are busy salvageing her. She was not far from the Shore & was in an upright position. We also saw just outside the breakwater a large timber steamer, heavily laden & with a tremendous list to port. Her deck cargo had apparently slipped.

Sunday July 2. 1916.
It is very cloudy this morning. The course is N.N.West and the speed is 11  ½ knots per hour.

Yesterday evening the Gunners fired two shots with the gun at a box in the sea. The distance was 400 yards and they scored a hit. The gun is 4.7 calabre, 2. F. electrically fired.

This morning I went on as Mess Orderly with Roy Partridge & Archie Borthwick. We are on for a week. The usual fire alarm on Sundayscame off at 11.30 when all hands had to assemble on deck with life belts on.

I finished reading a very long story "The Premier and the Painter" by I. Zangwill & Louis Cowen. It is a very interesting story, with flashes of real mirth, but there is a lot of dry details which makes the book of an inordinate length. There are many clever speeches & incidents in the book & it will well repay perusal.

At 2.30 Captain (Chaplain) McGregor conducted divine service on D. deck.

Monday July 3. 1916.
A bright sunny morning. The course is N.N.W. & the wind is from the South. There is a very heavy sea, but it is gradually moderating. We are now in the danger zone, and after 6. p.m. all smoking is prohibited, and there must be no lights showing. None of the main lights below are light. We are in semi darkness.

The ships carpenter repaired a hole in one of the boats to day. Thehole was knocked in last when when swinging the boat off the davits on to the deck. He repaired it by stripping off the two damaged boards and fitting in 2 new ones.

Tuesday July 4. 1916.
A nice morning but cloudy. The wind is from the N.West. the course is N.N.W. The main lights were not lit up this morning under the new regulations for the danger zone. There are numerous Furpheys abroard, that is rumours with its hundred tongues, and no two alike. One is that we are to call at least at one or two ports before we reach England. Rumour has it that we are to call at Cape Verde Islands; another at Cape St. Vincent, another that we are to be landed at Gibraltar and put aboard a fast ship to England. Still another Rumour is that we are not going to England at all but to Marselles in France. The reason given is that most of the cargo is for Italy, and by this course the ship could proceed at once to her destination.

Wednesday July 5. 1916.
It is very cloudy today & close. The course is N.N.W.and the wind is from the N.W. A wireless came through early this morning. Telling us that at Labyrinth the Brittish had taken a front of 7 miles with a depth of 1000 yards, also that the French had great gains capturing thousands of men & 500 tons of ammunitions and 37 guns, that the Russians had great victories against the Germans & Turks. The news spread great rejoicings throughout the ship.

At 2.30 this afternoon the ship stopped to enable an operation on one of the firemen for appendicitis to be performed. Another operation for rupture was performed on one of the soldiers. The sea was like a mill pond, & with the propeller stopped the vessel was as steady as a rock. At about 4. o'clock the ship was again under way.

[Following shorthand is not transcribed.]

Thursday July 6. 1916.
A nice morning with a calm sea. The course is 9 points West of North. The wind is from the West.

I saw some flying fish this morning. They are very small and silvery white inin colour. Before breakfast it was made known that a patient in the Hospital named Edwards died early this morning from Meningitis. He was one of the A.S.C. and the funeral will take place at 12 10.3. The body was wrapped in canvas and weighted with two firebars, and covered with the Union Jack. At the appointed time the remains were carried out of the Hospital on a stretcher to the stern. The service did not take more than a quarter of an hour. The last Post was sounded and the remains slid over the starboard side, the ship being hove to during the ceremony and all hands called to attention.

Thus passed the brief and solemn ceremony of a funeral at sea.

After dinner we were informed by our sergeant that there was another severe case of meningitis in the Hospital from the A.S.C. I saw the chaplain & the doctor going into the Hospital together.

Sgt. Mapleson of the Transport was removedfrom the Hospital last night where he has been since the second day we sailed. He is still very weak & white looking. He had a very severe attack of sea sickness.

During the past few days sails are being erected over the various decks as shade against the hot sun, for we are now in the tropics. It is very close this afternoon. Below decks the heat is severe and a great many sleep on deck.

I finished reading Steele Rudd's "From Selection to City". It is very amusing. I have started reading Part 14. Vol 2 Chapter XXX of the "Times" History of the War dealing with the first 3 months of the Naval War. It is very interesting & instructive.

The chief steward told me that there are 162 of a crew on board the Persic.

There came another wireless through telling us of further great victories by the allies on all the fronts & captures of guns & munitions. Lord Derby has been appointed Under Secretary for War.Friday July 7. 1916.
It is very hot today. The Captain & ships officers on their tour of Inspection came down in their white suites & the Army officers in light uniform. I slept above last night on top of the cooke house. It was very depressing below.

The course today is 7 points West of North with a very gentle breeze from the South which makes it much cooler.

Two large steamers passed us on the Port side this morning. One of them being H.M.S. Kent. She was about a quarter of a mile away and signalled with a large mirror which flashed the Morse code. She wished us "good Luck".

This is washing day. There is a shortage of water and N.C.O's of D. Company were instructed to supervise the washing in order that none should be wasted.

Saturday July 8. 1916.
It is very hot today. The wind is from the S.East which tempers the heat somewhat. Judging from the Sun the course is apparently the same. this afternoon we were paraded before Lieut. Taylor for an inspection of Well equipment and instructions. It is the duty of all soldiers to always wear their identity disks & in the event of a comrade being killed to collect his disk and pay book which is to be found in the right hand breast pocket of the service tunic. The same rule applies to the enemy's dead.

There came another wireless to day with good news of victories & captures of guns ammunitions. Lloyd George is appointed Secretary for War & Sir Edward Grey has been given an Earldom. I finished reading "Witching Hill" by G.W. Hornung. It is a rambling story of events connecting with Witching Hill estate.

Sunday July 9. 1916.
Another hot morning. The course is 10 points West of N. the wind is from the East.

I finished reading part 15. Vol 2. chapt XXXII of the "Times History of the War" dealing with the fighting around Paris.

We crossed the Equator today at 11 O'Clock.

Owing to the heat the church parade was not held until 5. p.m. whenCaptain Davidson conducted divine service on the well deck and Captain McGregor in the fore part of the ship.

I finished reading a novel "The Spectre of the Past" by Winifred Graham. It is a very interesting story & well worth reading.

Monday July 10. 1916
It is a dull cloudy morning and much cooler than yesterday. The wind is from the N.W. The course is 3 points North of West.

I finished reading Part 16 Vol 2. chapter XXXIII of the "Times History of the War" dealing with the Defence and Fall of Antwerp. I have started reading the next number.

We were drilled this morning in Semaphore signalling.

I saw a lot of flying fish today. After dinner a large one funnelled steamer passed us on the Port side. [Shorthand not transcribed.] Peter Silver was discharged from the Hospital today. He had been laid up with the measles.

Tuesday July 11. 1916.

The sky is overcast with clouds and light rain is falling. The rain started about 2. a.m. and drove all the sleepers on deck below. My hammock washung in the wash house & was safe.

The course is 3 points N. of N.W., the sea is freshing and the wind is from the West.

I read another "Times" History of the War. Part 18. Vol. II, chapter XXXIV "The Battles of the Aisne" and Chapter 35 dealing with "Military Aeronautics and the British air service"

Wireless messages come through every day. Yesterday word came that the Russians captured 12,000 prisoners & 45 guns also that the French & British did well. To day a wireless stated further gains on all the fronts, but that the Germans succeeded in navagiating a submarine the [indecipherable] to America with 1000 tons of dye stuffs on board. She was chased by French & British cruisers 20 miles from the coast which delayed her 4 days.

Before dark we passed a large ship on the Port side. Her Hull was below the Horizon.

Wednesday July 12. 1916.
There was heavy rain early this morning, which drove those on deck below. The wind is W.N.W. The course is 4 points N. of N.West.

There was a short arm inspection this morning & a bath parade.

Another wireless came through bringing good news of furthervictories on all the fronts. The French are making a daily rate of progress. The Russians captured 100 turks at Erzerum [Erzincan] and 1000 additional prisoners in Galicia and at Verdum [Verdun] the Violence of the German offensive is diminished.

There was a boxing contest this evening & was well attended. There were 5 or 6 different contests under the supervision of Huie [indecipherable]

[Shorthand not transcribed.]

Thursday July 13. 1916.
It is hot to day. There are clouds around the horizon but none overhead. There was a strong head wind last night & its continues with slight moderation today. The course is 4 points N of N.W.

A wireless message states that the British captured a heavy howitzer and 3 field guns. After ten days and nights of continual fighting our troops captured the whole of the enemys first system of defence on a front of 14000 yards.

Friday July 14. 1916.
It is dull & cloudy & misty this morning. The wind is from the North. The course is 2 points North of North West.Before breakfast we passed between two Islands of the Cape Verde Groope. They are bleak high rocky islands, and appear to be barren. The one on the Port Side is the largest & very mountaneous. Houses could be seen on the other island, but the hazy weather prevented us getting a good view. We are about 400 miles from the mainland of Africa.

We are now past the Suns most Northerly point at this season of the year and to day the shadow at 12. O'Clock falls on the North side instead of the South as in the Southern Hemisphere. The shadow of a man is only a few inches long, but of course it will gradually lengthen as we get further North. At 12 p.m. the sun is practically vertically overhead.

About 4. P.M. what was thought to be land could be dimly seen above the horizon in a bank of clouds on the starboard side.

After tea, three distinct Islands could be seen on the same side, the one on the bow being the longest. They were allindistinct owing to the mist & the distance. A two masted one funnelled steamer passed between us and the Islands. Tonight a lighthouse with a flash light can be seen on the starboard side.

Yesterday there were 62 cases in the Hospital. They were mostly measle cases. 15 patients were discharged today.

At 10 'O'Clock we lay off a little harbour in the Island of St. Vincent, and could see a lot of shipping & some war vessels. One of the most striking features was a round high rock rising like a pyramid out of the sea on the top of which was a lighthouse.

Saturday July 15. 1916
I was up early this morning. The Island is high & rocky & barren. There is a little town with substantional built Houses. There were 17 Steamers in the bay, most of them being interned vessels, 3 small schooners. But most important were 3 British men of war which lay to ready for action. We came in early this morning & lay too opposite thePrince Albert a 4 funnelled light cruiser. Immediately in front lay the Highflyer (3 funnels) which sunk the Kiser Wilhelm der Grosse in October 1914. The other cruiser was the Cambrier (3 funnells) which steamed out soon after we lay to and went North. On the West side of the Harbour is a long Island which effectually protects the harbour from the Atlantic Storms. We were not long in the Harbour when boats carrying natives came alongside and showed their proficiency in diving for small coins thrown overboard. They invariably caught the coins before they reached the bottom. Others caught fish and these brown little men showed great dexterity in the use of the line. After we had breakfast the Portuguese police came alongside and hunted all boats away presumably because the yellow flag was hoisted when as we came in and remains flying. The police intend to protect us or rather the natives for they anchored alongside. They wear a greyuniform with white caps. Before breakfast one of the ships officers boarded the Prince Albert. There is a high rock on the S.E side of the bay top of which is called Napoleon's Head. It is an exact figure of a mans Head in an inclined position the highest peak of which is the nose.

A little after 5.p.m. the Prince Albert put out to sea to reconnoitre. After breakfast all were assembled on deck while the band played God Save the King. There are no piers here with the exception of a small one for boats. All communications with the shore from ships being done by boats. We were not allowed ashore.

Sunday July 16. 1916
We are still in Port, and it is getting monotonous waiting, the only compensation being a quiet nights rest. At a quarter to eleven we steamed out of the harbour at St Vincent's Island, the sailors on the cruiser Highflyer cheering. We also cheered & many gave the Australian Cooee and our band played.

Everyday comes news of great victories on all the fronts. Today 3 pages ofwireless mainly describing the Western front, and brilliant successes by the British who have now got the Germans on the Run.

I have finished reading "A Secret Sin" by William Le Queux. A very interesting and thrilling narrative of a young English man and his Italian bride.

At 2.30 today the usual church parade was held and the service conducted by Captain (Chaplain) McGregor.

Amsterdam says that an official German report says that 6000 officers are missing; 24 000 killed, and 46 000 wounded; while the losses in generals were 4 missing, 92 killed, and 98 wounded.

While we were on board we took on board a quantity of sand in bags and to day most of it was placed around the gun on the stern as a protection for the men using it. The sand is also used for cleaning the decks.

Monday July 17. 1916.
A cool cloudy day. The course is 11 points East of North. There is a fairlystrong head wind.

A wireless message brought more good news of the War. Near the Peronne a Squadron of the Dragoon Guards accounted for a detachment of the enemy. This is the first opportunity of using Calvary in action since 1914 and signifies further victories ahead, as the Germans must be on the run & past the trenches.

Tuesday July 18. 1916
A dull cloudy day. The course is 10 points East of North with a strong head wind and a rough sea.

I have done a lot of reading lately. Several magazines & short stories. The Strand is a particularly good magazine, also several parts of the Times History of the War.

Wednesday July 19. 1916.
The course is 10 points East of North. The wind has moderated and the heavy swells have went down.

Before dark yesterday we passed on the starboard side a smallsailing vessel about half a mile away. It was a Spanish ketch trading between the islands.

Wireless messages come to hand every day. They now contain general news. Lord Kitcheners estate has been sworn at  £171,420. Sir Rodgers Casements appeal was heard before 5 Judges and dismissed. The Irish settlement provided for the exclusion of 6 counties of Ulster & the boroughs of Belfast and Londonderry New. Judges of the Dublin appeal court appointed by Imperial authorities, & the operation of the defence of the Realm Act administered by the Imperial authorities.

Thursday July 20. 1916
A cool morning. The course is 11 points East of North with a moderate head wind.

Very early this morning a ship was passed on the port side, a long way off. Before breakfast another could be seen in the far distance on the starboard side.

It was read out in orders this morningon G. Deck that the ships issue of knives forks & spoons are to be handed in on Friday, and thereafter use our issue ones. No. 15

At 2.30 today there was an unexpected life belt alarm, which caused great communation. We had tea this evening with our life belts on. The doors between the bulk heads were closed for the time on the voyage. These divide the ship into water tight compartments & prevents communication between the lower decks except from above.

We passed Gibraltar at mid day and we are now off the coast of Portugal.

Friday July 21. 1916.
The sea is very calm today, and there is a gentle head wind. The course is exactly North East. Today we had to parade in marching order.

Our universal kits were brought up out of the hold for the first time. Thewater had got at many of them, and some of the contents ruined. I was luckey, for beyond a small hole in my tunic there was no other damage. The knives, spoons & forks issued by the "Persic" were collected at 11.a.m. and we had to use our own for dinner.

A steamer passed very close on the port side at breakfast time. In the far distance there were several on the port starboard side.

We passed a two masted steamer at 6 this evening on the Port Side. She was about a quarter mile away.

Saturday July 22. 1916
It is very calm to day. It was cold last night but it warmed up by 10 o'clock and became fairly hot. The course is apparently unchanged, and there is a light head wind.

This week all the tarpolians that were fixed overhead to keep out the sun were removed.

This morning before breakfast all the port holes were shut and screwed down. They will remain shut until we get into port, which in allprobability will be over a month.

The "Persic" is tacking every few hours, in order to escape any submarines that may be about. Her course varies east and west of N.N.East.

This afternoon several boxing contests were on. But the event of the evening was a contest of 6 rounds of 2 minutes each for a purse of  £30 between Moles of A. company and Weeks of the Army service. Weeks received a lot of punishment but won on a foul in the third round. Moles lost his nut and hit him when down on his knees. Weeks was cool and collected throughout, and probably would have won had the 6 rounds been fought. Moles appeared to be excited and winded, and received but stood a lot of punishment. Weeks is an old boxer with a lot of science. Moles is a blacksmith from Maffra. Hughie Magin was referee.To day Private Brown of A. Company who was operated on for appendicitis a few weeks ago was out of the hospital for a short time. It was the first time he was out and he is now convalescent.

Sunday July 23. 1916.
It is a beautiful day and the sun is shining brightly. The sea is calm and there is a light wind. Last night and today our course is a zig zag one to England. The ship was tacking every quarter of an hour yesterday.

The usual Sunday church service was conducted at 2.30 by Captain (Chaplain) Davidson on G & F deck and by Captain McGreggor forward.

Monday July 24. 1916
The sea is extraordinary calm, and it is as smooth as glass. There is a very gentle head breeze. The course is still zig-zag, and it is reported that we will reach port tomorrow morning early, and it will probably be Devenport.

At 8.30 we drew our universal kits from the hold. There was a kit inspection this morning, and I had everything correct, except an entrenching tool head & cover which was removed frommy tent in Seymour by mistake by Lieut. Cerity [Cerutty].

After dinner there was a parade of the whole of head quarters for an inspection of the men by Lieut. Colonel Woods and our OIC.

The Colonel addressed the men, gave instructions to properly acquit ourselves like Australians, when we go ashore to-morrow.

At 4.30 I went on sick parade as I had a sore throat, and felt indisposed. I got some medicine & a gargle.

I finished reading a book "About Peggy Saville" by Mrs G. De Horne Vaizey. The clock was put back a quarter of an hour this evening.

Tuesday July 25. 1916
At bed time last night orders were given that fog signals might be used during the night. 3 whistles, were signals, and we were not to take any notice, but if there were 4 or more everyman was to get on deck with his life belt.

This morning is damp & foggy and everything is most miserable. There is a war boat No 92 conveying us this morning a Norwegian steamer passed us before breakfast.We passed the Eddingstone [Eddystone] Lighthouse about 10.30, and while we were at dinner we steamed into the Harbour of Devenport and lay to. At 3.30 we were transferred to the "Atlanta", and the remainder to the Sir Walter Raleigh and landed along side a stone pier, and immediately marched on board a train for Salisbury Plains on the London & South Western Railway line. At 4.30 o'clock we started and reached Exeter at 7.15. Stayed 10 minutes, & had tea & a bun supplied by the Mayoress of Exeter. The trains are much faster than the Victorian. We passed through some beautiful scenery and country homes. Everything is green, & the farmers are in the midst of hay making. We reached Yeovil Junction West at 9 O'Clock and Amsbury [Amesbury] at about 11 where we disembarked. There are long twilights & I saw a farmer carting in a load of hay at 9.30. we marched out to the camp & could not find our place for a long time. Eventually it was found and we lay down on the floor in our overcoats at 2.a.m. & slept to morning.Wednesday July 26. 1916
Here we are at last. There is every convenience. Houses to sleep in, hot & cold baths, a canteen. The number four house is 28 & it will accommodate 30 men. We were allotted to various Houses before dinner, 3 pioneers in each house along with a platoon of B. company. Our House is No 14 & it's accommodating 30 men. There is plenty of room & tables for writing.

Thursday July 27. 1916.
A hot steamy day, most unpleasant. I was drilling with B. Company. Paraded sick this evening as I had a sore throat & chest.A T Puzzle. Draw a large T. on paper and cut it in four pieces across the diagonal lines, thus.Bugle Calls and Routine for Troops

also has some fine buildings & shops. There are a number of public buildings in this street, amongst them being the Church of England and a few fine private residences also adorn this street.

The captain of the S.S. Troop ship "Persic" A.34. is Captain Stark.Albany contains some fine buildings. The main street runs parallel to the Shore. In this street there is the Post Office, which is a very fine building. There are also 3 or 4 big hotels and some large shops. There is another business street running at right angles to this one which

Pte. J.D. Wilson 46.
Head Quarters Pioneers
37. Battalion
10 Infantry Brigade
A.I.F.
On Active Service

At Sea.
June 1916