½ Piastre 1¼d
1 Piastre 2½d
2 Piastre 5d
5 Piastre 1/-
20 Piastre 4/6
10 Piastre 2/3

Sailed for England
Date = 15/3/15

Joined the Colors 6 January

Number 1812
Rifle Number 17871

Sgt. Muller
"Rillumbi"
Forrest St.
HaberfieldG. Macintosh
Modelling Instructor
Technical College
Ultimo, Sydney
N.S.W.
Australia

Revielle - 6 oclock
Rations – 6.30 oclock
Breakfast – 7.45 oclock
lights out – 9 oclock
Orderly Room – 11 oclock
Beer [indecipherable] – 11 oclock
Tea – 5 oclock

Mrs. A.H. Haddon
Bourke Street
Zetland Estate
Waterloo

C/o Rev. Lewin
OrangeReveille – 6 a.m.
fall in – 6.30
Rations - 7 a.m.
Breakfast - 7.30
General Inspection – 10.30
2 orderly at the table
No one else – 12 noon
1 [indecipherable] br. 4 1 man to
report to Mr. Ritchie
9.30 Orderly Room
fatigue 1 man to report to doctor to draw Rations for the sick – 7.30
9.30-11.30 forenoon – Parade
Table orderley to be fixed by ord. Cpl list of orderly to be handed to Mr. Ritchie.1805 – Pearson v 4 of u
1734 – Cheevers v D ditto
863 – Trooper Graham v R4 of 1st
1747 – Downey v 4 of 4
1770 – Hermen v S 4 of 4
1820 – Smith E. v 4-4
1708 – Dare v 4-4
1824 – Stevens E. v 4-4
1722 – Barbatt v 4-4

Grisly Jones to look after the Chaplain in train.

17 men & sergeant
3 men extra & Cpl.
Latrine Piquet
1 N.C.O. 12 men
12 Men from 4-13th & 1 N.C.O. from Each N.S.W. unit report to Congrieve at once.20th March

Diary of my first trip from Australia to fight.

Sailed from Sydney 17th March in the S.S. Shorpshire [Shropshire] at 5 o'clock p.m., arrived at Melbourne Friday 2 o'clock p.m. 19th March. We took 200 troops on board at 1.30 Saturday 20th March, nothing unusual occurred on that trip. I did not get a chance to go ashore at Melbourne so I cannott tell you much about it Except that it takes the boat about 4 hrs. from the heads to port Melbourne, we laid out in the stream & the transport boat carried the Melbourne boys on board.

March 21st
We left Melbourne at 6.45 on 21st after a verry cold visit. Rumours were numerous, some say that there was something wrong with the propeller but afterwards found out to be untrue. At Melb. we took aboard 8 nurses, They being the only women folk aboard, we now have 18 Sgts. in our mess, previous to that we only had 12. After leaving Port Melbourne we struck the heads 3 hrs. after leaving Port Melb. I am told it is called the (Rip) it is a glorious sight, one mass of whirlpools & verry rough, we lost sight of land about 8 p.m. 21st March on the way to Albany which I believe is our next Call.

22nd March
There is no land in sight, we are now in the Great Australian Bight, it is beginning to get Rough some say that we will have a storm to night. One poor unfortunate individual slipped on deck & broke his arm so I was told off to get a party of 12 men to holy stone the decks. We have only lost 1 horse since we started.March 23rd
We are getting it verry Rough now the wind is travelling about 60 miles an hour. Our boat is taking it verry good. There is land in sight so we watch the small mountains on the sea for a change.

25th March
Haven't much news to day feeling too sick we had a storm last night so that done the trick. No sight of land yet this 7.30 a.m. Thursday. Ha Ha Land sighted at 2.30 great Rejoicing on board the ship every one is cheering after a verry quiet voyage from Melbourne it was quite a novelty to see land on the starboard side on the Port side a P & O boat passed us, the first boat to pass us on the voyage from Melbourne. it is rumored on board this ship that America has declared war on England. We will lose sight of Land about 9 p.m. tonight, the last we will see for about 10 days.

March 26th
Well we have lost sight of land again 9 a.m. the ship is rolling now instead of pitching which has given me a chance to get on my feet again. I feel well this morning by good luck as I am ships orderly Sgt that means a busy day. I might tell you that the ships ord. Sgt. is the Senior N.C.O. of the day so you can see that a man wants to feel well on that particular day. I have a nasty Cold just at present but I got the Steward to get me a hot lemon drink & I feel much better this Morning. We have not Called at any port since we left Melb. Colombo is our next Port of Call that is ten days trip out of sight of land.

April 4th
Well we are just about to reach Colombo we have had a splendid trip from Cape Lewin.The ocean is about as smooth as I have ever seen in fact so one of the Men I have spoken to say they have never seen the Indian Ocean so smooth before yesterday it was just like a sheet of Ice. It does ones eyes good to watch the sunsets & Moonrises, it is some think beautiful a sight you might never see again. Last night we had a grand Concert on the Promenarde which was verry nice considering the wind was against the singers. All the boys lined up on the hatch way, some of them were in verry good positions & some were in bad ones. It was a grand sight to see the boys respond to the National Anthem by standing to (Attention) then we gave three cheers and that finished the night. At 6.30 this Morning I was looking over the railing of the ship all of a sudden there was one mass of flying fish dart out of the water & fly about 25 yards, not only one lot but several lots were seen. It is called a shoal when there are a lot together. I have ommitted to note that we passed Cocos Islands on last Wednesday 31st. We were out too far to see anything much of the Islands. Some say were about fourteen miles out so you can guess what chance we had of seeing them. To day is Sunday, there will be a church service on deck which will be much better than down below where we often have it.

April 5th April
Well we have reached Colombo at last. We were waiting about outside the breakwater for about 3 hrs. really speaking we anchored in the harbour about 8 o'clock, it is not a bad place from the boat, I have not been off the boat yet. When we were tying up there was one mass of cooleys in Small boats rushed the Gang ways to get on the boat to sell small goods all of them producing their cards but only a few wereallowed to board the ship. We took in coal & water. The cooleys are great in selling all sorts of things, bananas, cigars, Indian money, coconuts, underclothing. Some of the niggers are great at diving for money, cunning that Cunning they won't dive for Copper only silver. We left Colombo at 8 p.m. on the 5/4/15 our stay Consisted of 12 hrs. Noone was allowed to to go ashore so everybody is at this present moment is verry dissappointed. we finished up at Colombo by singing Patriotic Chorusus. I must say that Colombo is a verry pretty little harbour what little we seen of it. As we were moving out two powerful searchlights played on us. Coming out of the harbour the break water is something like this --- [see image of this page for drawing] and the boats go in & out these two gates with lights on the end of the wall.

April 6th
We are now passing the furtherest point of India that is near Celon, there is one mass of fishing Dhows or smacks sailing about our boat that is about 10 miles out from land but it is verry Calm hardly a move in our ship as far as the rolling or pitching is concerned. we sighted this land at 8.45 this morning, this land is about the highest we have seen, they look like huge mountains, there is a haze about so that makes it harder to see the land. Well there is no land in Sight now that 9.45 7/4/15

April 7th
I was given a St. Johns testament to night by the Chaplin. We are in the Arabian Sea now but it is just as Calm as the Indian Ocean.

April 17th
We passed the Socotro Island this morning a 6 oclock, we were too far out to see much.

April 12th
Reached Aden at 7 oclock, it was a verry pretty sight to see each light as it came over the horizon as we moved on search lights were seen abouthalf a dozen, I must say that it was a glorious sight. I was up on the rigging forward & could see pretty well everything as we neared the serchlights the pilot came aboard, they were brought over to us in a small boat manned by Arabs.

April 13th
We left Aden last Night at about Midnight staying for a couple of hrs. it is now 7 oclock, on our starboard side we are passing the 12 Apostles Islands in the red sea, there is quite a lot of Islands where we are now. we are now passing the Orange River boat.

April 17
After the hot weather we have quite a cold change just like a winters morn, we are just about to enter the Suez Canal, it is now 5-30. The water is verry pretty Color near the Seuz, it was not so hot as I expected in the red Sea. Well we are landing at Seuz instead of Going through the Canal, we arrived at the wharf at 8 oclock and disembarked at 11 oclock that night. after seeing all the horses off the boat we were packed into the horse boxes as we called them & arrived at Cairo at 6 a.m. in the morning 6½ hrs. journey cramped up. We disembarked & marched off to the Camp, we have now settled down for active service much regretting the good times on board ship such as the food & convenience it was alright. I felt dissappointed at not seeing my brother, it is said that they have gone to the dardenelles.

May 3rd, Monday
I am camped at Zeitoun Camp now in the midst of the sand, verry bad for Training. We get plenty of leave so I have been touring around. We are not far from Heliopolos, a beautiful place it is too. there are some of the most beautiful buildings I have ever seen especially the Hospital but they are badly placed. Cairo is a verry busy place, every second native you meet has got something to sell you, there are something like 38 thousand prostitutes in Cairo so you can imagine what the place is like with womenevery where you go it is Zig Zag verry nice verry good Australia verry good, come on Australia, nothing but this every where you go. I have visited the sacred well & the sacred Tree in Matareih. Well we expect to go to the front at any minute now may be a week or a fortnight, no longer.

May 15th Saturday
Tomorrow we will have been in Egypt a month. I am getting full up of camping on the Desert, I think everyone else is of the same mind there is one mass of wounded being sent here every day now there is some like a hundred thousand beds in different hospitals along the different suburbs. I have been to several Touring places. The Pyrimids [Pyramids] is about the best, they are wonderful no doubt. Whilst I was there I had my photo taken with a group right in front of the Sphinx. I was gazeted gazetted on the 10th of May as Sergeant, our pay started from 17th of March, on the 14th the rest of our reinforcements arrived, they are 1st & 2nd Batt. that is for the 4th Reinforcements – 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th & 13th.

On the 14th I was put under open arrest for losing a prisoner for 8 hours. I was changing the guard at the Detention Compound & after taking over the prisoners the Sgt. of old Guard & myself walked out of the gate where we were fixing up matters, I noticed a prisoner walk out of the gate with a dixie. well me not nowing my prisoners thought he was one of the orderlys & took not no notice of him when at 7 oclock Cpl. of police came to me & said, have you got Pte. Loch in the Boob. I said yes, so I said do you want to see him. Yes. I took him in & of course he was not there that was the first I knew of it so I am waiting my trial. The 27th will see us moving off to the front to Dardenelles. The cost of Living here is Dearer than Australia to my knowledge. Of course there some things that are decidedly cheaper. There is one thing that the Gyppies cannot do is make butter, it tastes sour to me and all the others say the same. I fill my time up mostly look up the books now & again I go to town & last but not least writing letters.18 May 1915
Yesterday we went to the range & fired some 20 rounds. There was no convenience for water there, most of our lips were parched for the want of water. Today I am just about the hardest up I have been in all of my life, in fact this last 4 day I haven't seen 1 Piastre, anyhow to night we get paid all our back pay, it is about £5 in all, so that will be one consolitation, verry hot to day flies are numerous here worse than Sydney by long half.

26th May
Left Zeitoun Camp at 6.45 Wednesday, reached Alexandria at 3 p.m., we sailed from Alex. at 7.30 that night & reached Lamnos Island at 29th May. On our trip we were badly treated, the food & accomodation was verry poor on this ship, that is The S.S. Novian. there was no special mess for sergeants. I think we were worse off than the Men. The Trip from Alex. was verry pleasant, fine weather & a fair amount of scenery such as Islands every five or six miles. The Islands are that Large that a village was pointed out to me & it looked for all the world like one mass of stones white. The height would account for that. Tomorrow we expect to land at Lamnos Island.

May 30th
We left the A12 T.T. at 6 oclock p.m. & boarded the "Newmarket" for Anzac Cove, all the Boys except the 13th of 4 Rein. went on board the Newmarket.

June 18-6-15
We arrived safely at Anzac Cove near Sara Bair hill and landed in small punts, we expected to be fired on but as luck happened we were not as we reached to beach we were meet one huge hill covered with what is called dug outs, little humpies cut out in the hill which we all live in, each man or two men have one to himself. We all got ashore 110 was the number of my company. I marchedthem up to our position near the firing line which is about a mile from the beach. I handed my men over to the 4th Battalion Head Quarters where we were split up into A, B, C & D Companys, myself going to D Coy. I was sorry to loose my Company as I had been with them all along ever since I had enlisted. We put up for the night in a dug out which I & two of my Cpls. made. I tell you we were a bit nervous that night, shots flying over our heads as we thought so we did not sleep verry comfortable so we passed the next day a bit better getting used to it. this night we turned in early at 8 oclock, at about 12 o'clock I was aroused to go up into the firing line. I can tell you was shakey, the second night anyhow a party had already been found so we were dismissed not to my sorrow I can assure you. The third day I joined my platoon that is the 14th as Platoon Commander, we went up to the firing line at 8 a.m. that morning which was not so bad going up in the day, one could see where he was going & how the land lies.After a few days of hell I got quite used to it, every evening we get shelled with shrapnell which is verry dangerous especially out of the trenches & down on the beach where they shell verry often in fact while I am writing this diary there are shells bursting on the beach. we are down near the beach for a spell so I can see them quite plainly. this country is verry mountainous especially when we have to carry up the water in cans from the valley. It is against all rules to have a wash on account of shortage of water, it is nearly a fortnight since I had a wash so I am going down to the beach tomorrow for a swim, this is the only time we can get the swim when we are spelling.

June 18th
Waterloo day so let us hope that we have as great a success as what Wellington had.

June 27th
Things are verry quiet just now we had it pretty lively last night, they attacked us at Quinns Post but were repulsed. I have been in supports now about two weeks so things are getting very stale.

August 2nd 1915
Reverted to the ranks at Gallipoli, gazetted as Sergeant in Zeitoun May 13, 1915, acting Sgt. from May 30th till 4/8/15.

4/8/15
Arrival of Andy Watson into 4th Battalion. Whilst I was standing on the verandah outside our trenches I caught sight of him & had quiet a long chat together, he looked a bit thin on it but looked well.

Aug. 6th
Capture of Lone Pine at 5-30 Friday, we left the trenches & took Lone Pine after a fierce & long struggle losing a good many. I got wounded at 4.30 Sat. 7th Aug. & landed at Alex. 11th & was admitted into No. 19 General Hosp. Alexandria.

23rd Sept. sailed for Eng. to finish Convalescence, arrived at Malta 20th Sept.Thence we proceeded to Gibraltar. on our way from Gib. going through the Bay of Biscay we got a wireless from the Highland Warrior to say she had struck the coast of Spain near Cape Finnistare, we arrived at the wreck at 6 a.m. 2 Oct. saving 29 passengers, mostly women. after sailing a day further we picked up a life boat. we arrived at Southhampton on Tuesday 5th of Oct. at 6 a.m., thence we boarded the train at 11 a.m. and arrived at Waterloo at 11.10 1.10 p.m., we had lunch on the train. Thence we were put into red cross private cars & after viewing a part of London we arrived at Hampstead Hospital at about 3 o'clock. Am leaving Hosp. on 5th Nov. going on furlough, have been to Hackney Strand Polytechnic & Royalty theatres while in hospital besides many partys & Motor rides.

Nov. 5th
Leaving Hampstead Hospital for furlough, arrived at Head Qrts. & was sent to Epsom Camp the same day.

11th Nov.
Going out on furlough if all goes well. I start my furlough today 11th Nov. till 26th. left for Southend on Sea on the 14th Nov., arrived London 22nd, left London at Kings Cross station for Dundee at 11.30, 22nd Nov., leaving Tay Bridge station Dundee today 28-11-15 at 5.30 p.m., after a grand time after reporting back to Headqrts. four day overdue, was fined £2 for being absent then I went up before the board on the 1st Dec. & was passed Medically unfit, then I was givenan extension of 15 days from 1st to 15th Dec. On the 2nd of Dec. I visited Colchester for a day, we embarked at Euston Stn., London. Then on the 4th we visited B.ham., from Bham. we trained to forge Mill out to Frank Winfields farm, we stayed the day & night then made back for London on the 5th. On the 6th of Dec. Fred W. went back to the Front. Today Wednesday I went off to Skegness to finish my holidays. Skeg. is an east coast seaside town in Linconshire [Lincolnshire] 132 miles from London. You get the train at Kings Cross. I have been down here since the 7th of Dec. & am still here, this day is 17th. I got another Extension of furlough from the 15th to the 30th so am busy looking out for a place to stay for Xmas. I have a mate with me, his name is Les Lott so we go around together. The place where I am staying is Mrs. Hare Albion House, 85 Lumley Road, Skegness. This place would be very nice in Summer but very quiet in Winter. Each peoples house has their name on a plate outside so you can see that everyone knows each other. Names of the most important Streets here are Lumley Rd., Drummond Rd., High St., Roman bank, Wainfleet Rd., North parade & South P., Rutland Road. Am, leaving here on the 20th Dec. Algitha Road is where the Westlean [Wesleyan] Church is & Miss Pearce received word tonight to report at Weymouth. Left Skeg. at 7.7 p.m. 17th, arrived Hampstead 11.15 same night, left Hampstead 8 a.m. 18th arrived at Herne hill to visit Miss Carter at 10.30,left London via Waterloo station at 2-10, 18th, arrived at Weymouth at 7-15. I have been at Weymouth Camp since prior to departing for Australia. The camp's address is Hut 7, Westham Camp, Weymouth.

25-12-15
Today is Xmas day. We are all sitting in our huts thinking of our folks at home. They say that we are getting 1 turky between 30 men & two pts. of beer each.

14-1-16
Met Aunt Ethel at Weymouth station 5 p.m.

Back to my Homeland.

19-1-16
Left Westham Camp at 11.00 for Portland Harbour, arrived at Melcombe Regis Stn. at 11.30.
have started for Australia. As we marched from camp the band left played us to the Station amid cheers & good byes along the route, arrived at Portland via train thence embarked on Star of Victoria. We left England, Portland at 3-15 escorted by a Destroyer to.

22-1-16
We are well past the Bay of Biscay now & have had fairly rough weather but is getting calmer now. We are all waiting for the long looked for warm weather.

23-1-16
Am now passing Madiro Island, time is 8.30 a.m. Chief products on this Island is Wine & coaling station. We areexperiencing beautiful weather just now. Our ship hasn't a roll in her, this is our fifth day.

26th January
Today is Australia Day so we have celebrated it at Sea. We also passed the Star of Australia. We have a fair sports programme on for today so as to remember the Day of our Native Land. We fell in on the boat deck at 10 oclock & was given a list of sports. Most of the Lads who were fairly fit entered their names. 2 oclock started the events, Tug of war won by South Aust. Drawing the Pig (game of bull), Bun & treakle race & a nail driving Competition for the Nurses. In the evening we held a Competition of Comic & sentimental Songs. At 9 oclock the prizes were distributed & we finished up with a speech from the O.C. of the troops so I think we kept up our day fairly well. (We are just about fifty miles from (Dakar Island) where we are going to put our Gun off. 27-1-16 today.)

27-1-16
Have arrived at Dakar, Africa west coast. Arrived at 11 a.m. This country looks well from the boat. all our officers have gone ashore & we are left here on board, expect to go out tonight. Dakar harbour is artificial composed of a breakwater. Cheif products Nuts, monkeys. Languages cheifly spoken are French & Spanish. Fever is very contagous here, Whites suffer considerably. Moved out of Port Dakar at 6 p.m. 27th Jan. Senegal is the town.

Arrived at the Cape of Good Hope on Tuesday 8/2/16 about 2 p.m. No land has beensighted since we left Dakar. We have had glorious weather since we left. Our first sight of the Cape was Table Mountain which is some considerable height. We expected to call in at the Cape town but to our dissappointment we did not, I losing a half crown on the deal. We had news via wireless that a great reception was awaiting us if we were coming into port.

9-2-16
Today is my birthday which is celebrated on board in the Indian Ocean. The day was spent in reading & having a lazy day of sunshine. We are about 300 miles from Capetown so this is where I spent my 22nd Birthday.

17-2-15 [17-2-16]
Have not seen Land for about ten days so have not much news this last few days have been verry cold, we being down about 44 deg. below the equator. We are now about seven days sail from Albany, it being our next port of call to drop our west boys. Tonight at 8.00 we droped a life buoy overboard with the latest flare attached to it. We watched it for six minutes & then it dissappeared. We covered 1½ miles in that time.

23-2-16
Have arrived at W.A., Freamantle at 2.45 p.m., we tied up at about five oclock after the Quack had inspected us.As we arrived in at wharf there were a couple of Hundred people to greet us. Whilst the west boys were going off we were presented with cigarettes, matches, cakes & chocolate. In the evening we had a fine concert down our troop deck given by ladies of Fremantle. We moved out of port at 9.30 tonight, next stop Melbourne where we alight I think & thence rail to Sydney. My opinion of our west reception was verry quiet indeed, I hardly heard a cheer uttered. I suppose that is due to so many troop ships being in before us that the people are getting tired of it. Some of the lads got ashore although there was an armed guard patrolling the wharf. Needless to say that there was some booze smuggled aboard, pretty well all night we were putting them to bed.

24-2-16
We are just about to enter the Great Australian Bight. The wind has reached about sixty miles an hour. In reference to our arrival at W.A., I think it was one of the sights of the world to see the beautiful long beaches pure white sand and the evening sun just setting, just like our own dear shores. One soon knows when he is near the native Land. I could not help but take notice of the pure white frocks of the Colonials as compared with the English mufferlers & top Coats, it being winter in England.28-2-16
Passed King Island about 6.30 enroute from West to Melb. Tonight is our farewell concert to our Melb. Comrades. Entered Melbourne heads at 7.30 a.m, 29-2-16 enroute for port Melb. Wharf. arrived in port at 11 a.m. We arrived at the wharf at the town pier at 4 p.m. After seeing our Western states off the boat in Motor Cars we were allowed ashore from 6 p.m. till 11 p.m.

1-3-16
We moved off from the town pier Melb. to go up to No. 2 wharf up the Yarra river to discharge some cargo.

2-3-16
Left Melbourne at 4 p.m. for Sydney after a good two days leave in Melbourne. Arrived Melb. Heads 7 p.m.

4-3-16
Arrived at Sydney Heads at 11.30.I've been lately thinking over Bil the Kaiser
The man that wants to rule the Land & sea
Now when I think of Balmy bil the Kaiser
I wonder does he think the same of me.
in fighting he is very fond of fireling [firing?]
John Bull will find his points without a doubt.
Now here's a man with fame as bad as Nero's
What do you think of him I like to know.

Now all you have to do is to boo boo boys
When I ask you what you think of Kaiser Bil.
In fact well you can call him what you like Boys
And when your's on your own I know you will,
Your often heard him speak in praise of heroes,
in chorusus you will let your voices rise,
Before he has a chance to throw towel in
Count up to nine & put the blighter out.Rider's family
our motto
Rider – while I Grow I hope
Dum, cresco, spero

C/o John Darling & Son
64 Pitt St.

7992 City

H.B. Sale Limited
Diesinkers
135-137 Constitution Hill
Bham [Birmingham]

Vaughtons Ltd.
Gothic Works
Livery Street
B.ham.

19th Batt. Comforts fund
11 Bent St.
City

Miss Foster
Tues. & Fridays
10 a.m. till 4 p.m.

Jamieson & Co.
30 Hutchison St.
off Flinders St.

Arthur Fenwick Ltd.
108 Vyse St.
Jewellers Diesinkers
B.'ham.Miss Ford
Throsby St.
Moss Vale

Bazaar Chalmers
Church Friday & Sat., 5th & 6th May

Friday – Aburn [Auburn?]
Sat. - Aburn
Sunday morn. meet Max at Station 10.00
Monday – Darlington
Tuesday – Meet Jes

Sat. 20th
Picnic Neilson Park
Olive Danker

Mr. Boon
208 Bridge Rd.
Glebe

J. McClure
S Ward
No. 4 General Hosp.

J. McClure
Commenara St.
W. KogarahSaturday afternoon
2.30 Office U822
U 8351 house

A.G. Jago
"Brockley"
Western Rd.
Parramatta

W.E.A. Young
30 Gayton Rd.
Hampstead
London N.W.

Fred J. Lott
Iris
37 Henson St.
Summer Hill

City 6720

J.C. Rider

Mr. R.A. Kemp
73 Wellington Rd.
Bush Hill Park
Enfield
England.Miss Dacombe
54 Market St.
four doors from Collins St.

Have written to
Harry Rider
Fred W.
Mrs. Round
Frank Gillen
Mrs. Taylor
Mrs. Warby
Mrs. Reynolds
Mrs. Kemp
Mrs. White
Lil Crichton
Mrs. Harris
Mrs. Haddon
Julie Edwards
Rev. Lewin
Mrs. Baldwin
Mrs. Warby
Mr. Seymour
May Stevenson
Miss Wakefield

[In margin]
Jim Munro
Katie Eather
Andy Watson
Lilian Rider

F.A. Gillen
Tattersalls Club
Adelaide

R. Stephenson
381 Bridge Road
Richmond

Telp. Hawthorn 1721

Mrs. M.E. White
17 Harrington Gdns.
3 Kensington
London

17th Halcomb
Star Pictures
Bondi Junction
Opp. Grocer's Shop

7.30 p.m., 17th Wed.Mrs. Rider's Family
Clara born 27 Feb. 1879
Ada Isabell 17th April 1882
Flora 3rd April 1884
Ellen 16th Feb. 1886
Jessie 8th Nov. 1887
James Harvey Munro 8 July 1889
Edith 19 Feb. 1892
Edwin 9 Feb. 1894
Gertrude 19 Oct. 1895
Elizabeth Ethelda 8 May 1898
Horace 27 January 1901
Walter James Munro 25 June 1903

£61-13-4 Harry's Legacy

J.P. Seymour
11-13 William St.
Melbourne, Vic.

Pd) 14
Pd) 30
Pd) 31
Pd) 30
Pd) 31
Pd) 14
Pd) 140 divided by 2
Pd) 7

2135
No. 3135 Watson

Letters Sent
M.M.P. Barrack, A.I.E.C.
Heliopolis
Via Cairo
Egypt

5478
Letters sent
Gnr. Munro
11th Rein. 1st Bde
Aust. Field Art.
Aus. Forces
EgyptA.H. Kemp
Professor of Music
Lismore

A. Kemp
Staff Sergeant Major
5th Light Horse

Mrs. Round
3 St. Georges Square
Cheltenham
Gloucestershire

Mrs. E. Taylor
114 Brettell Lane
Stourbridge
Worcestershire

C/o Warby
Irongate St.
Granville

Mrs. R. Hunt
C/o H.J. Hazel
25/26 Wolsey Mews
Caversham Rd.
Kentish Town
London, N.W.

53 Agincourt Rd.
Hampstead, N.W.

1916
1879
37Miss Lilian Carlton
24 Gloucester Cres.
Regents Park
London

477 Tpr. J.G. Baldwin
7th Light Horse
Peel House
31
362

Deferred Pay till 31st Decem.
Due = £21-7
Over drawn Pay 13/4

Taybridge Station

3 Shaws Bds.
Hawkhill
Dundee

Arrive 9.18 a.m. Winfield & Rider Tuesday

Pay dueReduced to ranks from 4/8/15

Mr. Power
Room 5
The Australian War Contingent Association
70 Victoria St., W.C.
England

Cymbeline G.M. Austen
Zollie Austen
Clifton House
Constance Road
Sutton
England

J.H. Rider 216
Ward 22, Block B.

Mrs. Cornall
"Low Wood"
St. James Avenue
Gravesend
England

Mrs. C.S. Elliott
"St. Elmo"
Orient Street
Gladesvalle

1353 C.S. Elliott
No. 10th Platoon
C Coy, 2nd Batt.You clear away well cursing
but you're soon bailed up outside
with Mester you go Pyrim
you want a Donkey Ride.

You pay the cabby twice his fare,
you safely dodge the Police
the Driver's voice pours forth anon
Mester give it Buckshee

Just send a mob of gyppies
across to Kaiser Bill
if they don't send him off his nut
guess that nothing will.

A Question
Is it cause we're simply sold.
or strangers in this land
that the Gyppies swarm around us
like specks of Desert sand.
From first thing in the Morn
it is the one incesant cry
Gyptian Mail or Times
they pest of you to buy.

Apples or obangies [oranges?]
You buy a cigarette
They are really the most
persistant coons I ever meet.

When you're strolling around sightseeing
along the Different routes,
a swarm of kids persue
shouting Mester cleana boots

When you sit down for a whisky
to put you in good mood
there's a whisper at your elbow
buy it Post Card verry good.T.E. Menden
76 Upper Pd. Rd.
Hampstead, N.W.

Pt. Craig

28 total

1st of May
Saturday 22-5-15
Photo of the Guard
Camp Quarter
Proof Thursday
22-5-15find out whether we have a man in our Company who signs his name as Cam.

Hancock to be last

Sea Kit bag Contents
Tunic, 2 Prs. Putties, flannel singlet, 1 Pr. socks, hold-all, cardigan, jacket.

Miss Dorothy Hughes
"Clayton"
5 Dhurst. Rd.
Potts Point
Sydney
Australia

Addresses of people to write to

Miss Iris Carter
12 St.
Leichhardt

Rider
282 Annandale St.
Annandale

Abbott

Mountain St.
Glebe

Miss Kate Mordant
267 Bourke St.
Darlinghurst
Sydney, N.S.W.

Mr. G. Macintosh
Modelling Instructor
Technical College
Ultimo, Sydney
N.S.W.Memo on additions to Diary – 15-2-19

Number = (1812 & 2812)
Name in full = Edwin Rider
Date & place of Enlistment = 6th January 1915, Victoria Barracks, Sydney
Rank & Regiment = Sergeant from 6th Jan. 15 to Aug. 4th 1915
Private from Aug. 5th to June 2nd 1916
4th Reinfts., 4th Battalion, 1st Division, Infantry
Date of Discharge – 2nd June 1916

Rank
I was reverted to the rank of Private owing to an order from Head Quarters stating that owing to an overflow of N.C.Os. all reinfts. N.C.Os. were to revert to the ranks until such vacancys occur that would enable me to fulfill my former rank. I was wounded two days after my reversion which prevented me from rising to my former rank.

At the age of 21 years & four mths. whilst proceeding from Alexandria, Egypt, enroute to Gallipoli, I was in complete Command of 150 men this number constituting the 4th Reinfts., 4th battalion. This trip included six days through the Submarine danger zone.

I was only two days a Private whilst on active Service or actually fighting.

E. Rider